Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Manager of the Worldwide
Developer Relations Mac OS Technology
Group,
Tim Holmes.
Tim Holmes: Good morning.
Welcome to session 111.
I'm not going to be speaker today,
fortunately.
There was a chance of that due to
an impending childbirth coming.
This session's gonna be a
little different than many of
the sessions you've been to.
You've been to a lot of details
about technical hurdles you need
to get over to move to Mac OS X.
You've learned about the
technology underlying Mac OS X.
But this one is important
in a different way.
This isn't just about coding.
It's not just about moving your Macintosh
application-- or your application
to the Macintosh or to Mac OS X.
It's about truly making
it a Mac OS X experience.
There's a lot gonna be covered today.
It's a long session,
so I won't take a lot of time.
I simply want to introduce a man
who I consider a true evangelist,
the user experience technology manager
for Mac OS X and Apple Computer,
John Galenzi.
-
All right, well, good morning.
As Tim said,
we're going to take a different tact
with this session and look at some
sort of conceptual ideas relating to
user interface design and how to create
a really great product on Mac OS X.
We're not going to be looking at APIs.
We're not going to be
talking about coding.
We're not going to be looking
at data structures or I/O Kit or
any low-level stuff that,
you know, a lot of you are looking
at in other sessions.
We're going to be looking at the
high-level ideas behind what does it
take to create a great citizen product,
a true citizen on Mac OS X under
the Mac OS X--the user
experience for Mac OS X,
which is Aqua.
We're going to do that by first
looking at building a foundation
for why that's important.
By looking at some of the benefits
that users are going to gain from
this and that you as a developer
are going to gain from creating
a product that has great design.
Next thing we're going to do
is look at what are some of the
scenarios that you're going to
face as you consider adopting Aqua.
How do you allocate your resources?
Where do you spend your time?
Because there's lots of stuff to do
when you bring a product to Mac OS X.
And so we're going to look at
and help you sort of set the
priorities for those decisions.
And the third thing I want to do
is go in depth on what some of the
building blocks are for a great
product on Mac OS X under Aqua.
So this is the Mac OS X desktop.
We're all familiar with this.
We've all, you know,
you're all running Mac OS X.
You've seen this.
You've interacted with it yourselves.
But you know,
when Apple released Mac OS X back in,
what was it, January 2000 at Macworld,
we revealed to the world an
interface that was unparalleled
on any computing platform.
And the reviews that we've seen to
date have really attested to this fact,
right?
I mean,
the reviews we're getting are fantastic.
They're talking about Aqua in
using words like "awesome" and,
you know, "fabulous," etc.
And, you know, they wrote it.
I didn't write it.
So, but the reviews are attesting to the
fact that this is a phenomenal interface.
We use transparency and shadowing and
anti-aliasing to create an environment
that's incredibly attractive.
And that really is the new world in which
your apps on Mac OS X are going to live.
And that's why I'm going to keep
talking about this idea of citizenship.
If you treat Mac OS X as if it was a
country that you were going to belong to,
that your product is going to belong to,
it's going to relate to the citizenship.
Are you a stranger in a strange land
or are you really a full class citizen
and a true citizen of this country?
So the benefits of creating a
product with great design are many,
right?
The first benefits for users are they're
going to learn your product faster.
A product that's well designed,
that has a great intuitive interface
layout that leads them through
the process of arriving at the
solution that your product offers
is a product that's going to allow
users to learn the product faster.
If they can learn the product faster,
they accomplish tasks more quickly,
because things aren't
getting in their way.
They're not confused about
where they're going to find some
given feature in your product.
Windows that are laid out nicely,
that are organized properly,
that have proper spacing-- and
we're going to get into all these
details shortly-- are applications
and products that are going to
enable users to get on with the task
that they're trying to get on with.
And the software is not
going to get in their way.
As a result of those things you're
going to increase productivity.
So users are going to gain a
great return on investment.
They purchased your product.
They wanted to get a
solution from your product.
They're getting the solution.
They're getting their things done.
And so they're going to have
great return on investment,
which is going to save them time,
which is going to save them money
as a business or a small business.
All of this stuff matters.
And sometimes,
when we're developing software,
we forget about those end users out
there who are using the product.
They don't care about all the features,
per se, as features.
They care about how those things
enable them to get the solution that
they're trying to arrive at to the
problem that they're facing with their
business or with their life or whatever.
All of us have introduced
Macintosh to somebody,
right?
We've all sat down with a
family member and we started to,
you know,
we've been preaching them or whatever,
we've been talking to them for months or
years about how great the Macintosh was.
And so we sat them down,
finally we had an opportunity
to sit them down over Christmas,
holiday, vacation or whatever,
and we sit them down in
front of the machine and we,
you know,
it's that first experience that matters,
right?
And I bet you half the audience here
will have chosen the wrong product
to introduce the Macintosh with.
I've done this several times with people
and I remember certain times I chose a
product that I will never choose again.
And I sat them down and I thought
this was the product that would
get them to choose the Macintosh.
And they started to interact with
this thing and they got all confused
about what they needed to do next.
Those were products that were not
well designed in terms of leading
the user into the task at hand and
into the solution that they're after.
So increased self-confidence,
it comes about when products are
designed in such a way that users
accomplish the things they're trying
to do and they feel good about it.
And ultimately,
if the users have done all these things,
if they're getting things done,
if they're getting return
on their investment,
a positive return on investment,
if they're feeling good about themselves
in terms of using the computer,
they're going to have real
satisfaction in the purchase
they made from your company.
The developer benefits
come right out of this,
of course.
If you've got satisfied customers,
you've got increased upgrade revenue.
The chances are that a happy
customer or satisfied customer of
a previous product of yours will
buy a new product is very great,
if they have a great
experience with that.
Not only that, but with Aqua,
specifically on Mac OS X,
if you do nothing but clean up
the interface on your product,
follow the interface
guidelines completely,
and add all of the
functionality that Aqua offers,
and add no additional features,
people will buy the product upgrade.
So you don't even need to add new
functionality specifically for Mac OS X,
because people are looking
for the Mac OS X user
experience within your product.
And if you just deliver that alone,
you'll get a product upgrade,
potentially.
So anyway, based on the user experience
benefits that we've seen before,
you're going to have
reduced support costs.
If customers are getting
things done with your product,
Why would they call you?
The software's not getting in their way.
Why would you have complex documentation
if the product just sort of leads
the user through the task at hand?
Right?
So reduce documentation.
More positive product reviews.
Probably the single most,
the single manner in which customers
and reviewers are going to evaluate
your software on Mac OS X and the
quality of your product on Mac OS X is
based on the quality of your interface.
If your interface is half done or
shoddy or just doesn't feel like Aqua,
you're going to see it
reflected in the reviews.
All of us have read,
certainly those who've been
on the Mac platform for,
you know, a number of years,
know about those typical reviews,
product reviews that sort of say,
"You know what?
This is kind of a cool product
from a functionality point of view,
but it sure feels like
a Mac port." Two stars.
Right?
Don't have that happen to your
product on Mac OS X when the
reviews start coming out about it.
And gaining a competitive advantage.
I'm taking a few minutes on these
slides because it's really important to
build this foundation for why the rest
of the stuff in this session matters.
A competitive advantage can
be earned by your product.
If you deliver a product that
has a fantastic user experience,
because if you consider all things being
equal in a given software category,
right, your competitor has the same
functionality that you do,
you essentially read and
write each other's files,
you do all, you know,
all things being equal,
the product out of those two that
has the better user experience that
builds on Aqua the best is going
to have the competitive advantage.
Not only for that,
but because you're going to
have reduced tech support costs,
simplified documentation,
all the other things as a result.
So how do you decide what to adopt?
You know,
what attributes of Aqua do you want to
adopt in your product as you come to 10?
Well, the way to do this, I think,
is to sort of lay out a good, better,
best scenario.
Kind of like we do on the
Apple Store with our software,
with our hardware, right?
Good, better, best configurations.
Let's look at it that way
in terms of adopting Aqua.
The good scenario is really the minimum.
What does it take to create a great
product or a good product in Mac OS X?
Well, it takes native code for one thing,
right?
And then it takes these six things.
It's not enough to bring
your product to Mac OS X,
to bring your code over to Mac OS X,
to carbonize or to Cocoa,
bring your product right in Cocoa or
bring it over in Java or whatever
you do to get your code onto X.
It's not enough to bring,
to port your code to X because that
just gets you to the operating system.
But it doesn't get your product
on the operating system,
if you know what I mean.
So native code is one step,
but it's not the minimum.
That's not what we would
consider the minimum.
The minimum is native code
plus these six things,
quality icons,
respecting the doc-- we'll get into
all these in detail in a minute here--
but adhering to the system appearance,
adhering to the layout guidelines,
adhering to the new
windowing model on Mac OS X,
if that's going to affect you,
and providing user assistance
through Apple Help.
That's the minimum.
That's what it takes to
ship a great product,
or a good product on 10, sorry.
A good product on 10.
A better product on 10 is going
to have all of those things,
native code and all of those things,
plus adhering to the file locations that
are default for every user on Mac OS X,
saving files in the right places
as predefined by the system.
Adopting Sheets and doing
things like help tags,
going to the next step,
next level in terms of
providing user assistance.
And of course the best delivery
of a great product or the best
way to deliver a great product on
10 is to do all of these things.
Which is add dock animation
where it makes sense.
Implement drawers,
take advantage of drawer functionality.
And then do speech enabling your
application where it makes sense as well.
So, really what I'm saying is that
to provide a fantastic user
experience on Mac OS X under Aqua,
you need to adopt the
human interface guidelines.
This is a document that's been
evolving over the last year.
We've continued to, we've had,
I don't know,
I think it's three updates now.
As of today,
there's a new update that's available
for download off our developer website.
I'll give you the URL at the end.
But this document is a dynamic document.
It's going to continue to be updated
as we continue to add functionality
to Mac OS X and as we continue to
view what developers are doing and
help give you guys guidance in terms
of what you're doing on the platform.
So step one, let's go in depth on some
of these building blocks for
creating a great Aqua application.
Step one is native code.
You all know how to do this,
and if you don't,
that's why you're here or whatever.
And I'm not going to go
into this in great detail.
Step 2: Quality Icons Why quality icons?
Probably the single most visible
attribute of your application on
Mac OS X is the icon that shows up in the
dock when the application is launched.
Icons in Mac OS X can be extremely large.
128 by 128 when you're looking
at the browser view in Finder
and you select an application,
don't double click it but
just select it or a document,
you see the enlarged
application icon in Finder,
right?
And application icons and document icons
on Mac OS X are extremely rich in design,
in visual appearance.
And they have lots of characteristics.
And if you look at this
particular slide on the top row,
you've got user applications
which are highly,
you know, they have lots of color,
they're inviting, they're attractive,
they communicate lots about
what the application does.
That's the first genre of applications,
first type of application icons.
The second row is utility applications.
They're monochromatic in color.
They're viewed in characteristics,
visual characteristics, right?
In fact, there's a lot to say about icons
and I'm not even the expert there.
And I don't want to go into any
great detail because I could
talk this whole session about it.
So we've actually put a session
specifically aside to talk
about icons here in Hall 2,
10:30 on Friday.
And the biggest takeaway from this
session is going to be that you will
learn how to critique icons in Mac OS X.
So that when you're working
with a graphic design
agency or graphic designer,
or in-house graphic designer,
and they produce a first
turn of an icon and say,
"Hey, what do you think of this
new icon?" You can say,
"Well, you know, I don't know.
Either it's great, or it's not,
or it needs some more work."
So I think coming to this session is
going to give you that information,
give you some insight into
how to critique icons and
make some good choices.
Icons are very different on Mac OS X,
and they're a very visual
component of your application,
so they're really a big deal.
Conversations about the icon
inevitably lead to the doc,
because the doc is the keeper of icons,
right?
And there are three things that you
need to do with respect to the dock,
or that you need to pay attention
to with respect to the dock,
in terms of delivering a great user
experience on 10 with your application.
The first two things are
things that you must do.
Every application on the platform
should do the first two things,
and we're going to talk
about these in detail.
The third thing is something
that some applications should do.
In some instances, it really makes sense
to animate a dock icon,
but not in every case.
So the first thing that every application
that ships on Mac OS X should do
is to respect the doc's location.
Why does this matter?
Well,
Everybody's been caught currently,
because lots of
applications don't do this,
currently with windows that size behind
the dock and now suddenly you're caught
because you've got to move the dock
or size it down or whatever you do to
get at the resize box for the window.
So every application on Mac OS X that
ships should respect the dock's location.
There are APIs available
for Carbon and Cocoa,
and when you open a new window or open
a user window or zoom your window,
make sure that you don't zoom
it or size it behind the dock.
So this is the behavior
that you want to have.
Not this.
This.
users will be a lot less frustrated,
and you're going to provide a
greater user experience for them.
The next thing that every application
should do to provide a great user
experience on Mac OS X is to have
dot clicks always produce a window.
Why is this so important?
Well, one of the things that we're trying
to get around with in Aqua is to
move beyond where we were with
Mac OS 9 and provide a better,
more streamlined user experience.
Not all the features are there yet.
We know that.
We're consistently revising
the operating system.
We're going to add new functionality.
But one of the things that's an
experience that we've probably all had
with someone on the Macintosh is where
people close the document window thinking
that they're quitting the application.
And suddenly they're sitting
there now and there's no
windows open on the machine.
They click on the background,
the desktop on Mac OS 9,
and they're lost.
Where'd my application go?
Where'd my document go?
I don't know what I did.
And one of our design goals for
the doc and for this particular
principle is to make sure that that
doesn't happen anymore on Mac OS X.
And if every developer out there
shipping a product on Mac OS X does this,
The problem's going to be gone.
Because what happens is
if you follow the rules,
if you're a document-based application,
if you have no document windows open,
a click on the doc will result in a new,
untitled document.
If all of your windows are minimized,
a click on the dock is going to activate
the last window that was minimized.
And if you're a
non-document-based application,
like System Preferences, for example,
and you close the
System Preferences window,
when you click on the
System Preferences icon,
the app is still running, right?
What it does is it brings
up its main window.
That's the behavior that every
application on Mac OS X should be doing.
Animating Doc Icons This is the third
thing that relates to the doc and
this falls into the category of things
that some applications should do.
Every application could animate,
it's possible to animate your
application icon and your document icon.
And this should only be done in
the case where you want to provide
meaningful feedback to the user.
You want to provide status and
some operation that's occurring.
You want to provide some update as to,
you know, progress on some,
maybe a high-end rendering process that's
taking place with one of the documents.
So when you consider
animating your doc icon,
whether it's your document,
a document icon, or an application icon,
think very carefully about whether
this is going to provide great
value to the user in terms of
indicating progress or status,
or whether this is just something cool.
This is the kind of functionality
that we dread making available
sometimes because there's always
developers out there that go,
"This is just too cool."
And they call home and they say,
"You know what?
I've got to work on something
really important." And then
they stay up all late,
late real night,
making something really neat.
And yet it has no value.
And the last thing that any of us
want is firing up a bunch of apps
and having the doc animating every
single icon in the doc animating.
So do this where it makes,
it lends value.
And don't use garish colors.
Don't use blinking.
Don't use, you know,
just some crazy animation
that's constantly going.
Use it where it adds value.
So for example, in Mac OS X,
if you look at what we're doing
with the mail application,
the mail application
icon looks like this.
And when you receive new mail,
that's a status that we want
to communicate to the user.
That's a situation we want
So what we do is we tag the
application icon with a red badge.
The red badge happens to have inside
of it the number of new unread
messages that you have in your inbox.
But that's not what's
most important here.
What's most important here is
that there's a red visual cue
that your eye picks up on,
even if you're not even
looking at the doc.
You're on screen.
You're interacting with your computer.
And yet you see that red icon up here,
certainly if the doc is up.
right?
That's the kind of guideline that
we're looking to lay out for you,
before you.
Be very careful how you do animation.
Do it in a way that's minimal,
minimalist,
that doesn't get in the way and stand out
in a way that's going to distract users,
but that also communicates volumes.
So what happens is your eye
sees a red dot and it goes,
"Oh, I got new mail." And then you
zero on in the details as to how
much mail and whether you really
care about reading it or not.
So be careful how you choose
to animate your icons.
And we're going to have sessions later on
this week that go into detail about how
to do this from the API point of view,
but I don't want to get
into those details here.
So before we get into the next session,
I want to talk about
what's your citizenship.
I brought this up because I recently
moved to Silicon Valley from Canada.
I'm a Canadian.
And it's a great place to live here,
it really is.
But you know,
and I'm not an American citizen,
I'm a Canadian citizen, proudly so,
but I have a work visa here.
But the thing about citizenship is,
When I go around here,
particularly when we moved in
and I started to drive around the
valley and find my way around,
I couldn't find things.
There were certain things I was
looking for and I couldn't find them.
And it really came down to a cultural
difference or kind of like a citizenship.
I mean they do things differently in
the States than they do in Canada.
They do things differently in
Europe than they do in Canada or
in the States or whatever.
And so some prime examples of
looking for something and not
finding it when I expected it
to be there were three things.
First of all, service stations,
gas stations.
I'm driving down the highway.
I'm expecting a gas station to be
at an interchange where there's
another highway or whatever.
That's where they are in Canada.
And so we've gone on
trips here and we've,
you know, been near running out of gas.
And there's no service station.
It's not the visual cues
that I expected are there,
but there's no service station.
The other thing is a 7-Eleven.
I can't find 7-Elevens.
They're not working.
we're expectant to be.
Usually in Canada, or in eastern Canada,
certainly the ones that I knew about,
7-Elevens were by the local strip mall,
right?
The small shopping plaza that's
in the neighbourhoods or whatever.
There's always a 7-Eleven right there.
Well, that's not where they are here.
So I'm looking for
things in certain places,
and I'm not finding them.
And the other thing is lakes.
Where I come from, in eastern Canada,
there's lakes everywhere.
And so when I go into the woods,
go for a hike or whatever,
and I'm walking around over the hills,
I expect to see a lake.
And I do.
And yet when I go for hikes here in
the Santa Cruz Mountains or whatever,
there are numerous instances where we've
been at a children's camp or something,
and we're walking around,
and we expect a lake to be somewhere,
and there's no lakes.
And it really disorients you.
And the reason I'm talking about this is,
we showed the Mac OS X desktop
at the beginning,
right?
That's the world in which your
application is going to live.
The question is,
will your application show
things in the right places
where users expect them to be?
What's your citizenship going to
be with your Mac OS X product?
And the way to show what your
citizenship is through the
next several building blocks.
The first is system appearance.
Aqua has very specific representation
of on-screen interface elements,
right?
Pop-ups look a certain way,
push buttons look a certain way,
bevel buttons, radio buttons,
all of the interface widgets that
we're used to have a particular
appearance that's unique on Mac OS X.
They don't look grayscale.
They don't look just white
or whatever we're used to
previously on the Macintosh.
They don't have other
platform appearances.
They're very unique to Mac OS X.
Your application needs to follow this
appearance if it's going to look like
a full-class citizen on Mac OS X.
The reason that's important is because
users are going to come to expect a
particular appearance for controls,
and they're going to use that
as visual cues for visual cues
as they search out things on the
screen and know what to click on,
et cetera.
So one of the new things that was
introduced with Mac OS X is toolbars.
Toolbars in Mac OS X have a
striped background appearance.
They have icons that are up
on the toolbar that have a
shelf-like perspective on them.
We're going to talk in detail about
what toolbar icons look like in the
designing icon session on Friday.
But Mac OS X toolbars have
a very special appearance.
They're very cleanly laid out.
Nice use of white space.
The icons sit on a striped background,
as I said.
There's text below the icon,
anti-alias text of the system font,
right?
Carbon, sorry,
Cocoa developers get this for free
by using the NS Toolbar class.
They just get this stuff for free,
plus the configuration sheet that
comes down to configure the toolbar.
Carbon developers need to
do a little bit more work in
assembling some of the pieces,
but essentially can easily do this.
The other thing about these toolbars
is they don't really show status.
They're used for selecting, you know,
making a choice and moving on.
And so when you make a choice,
when you select an icon, it darkens 50%.
So when you look to roll your
own toolbar through Carbon,
for example, make sure that the icon is
darkened 50%. So if you have
toolbars in your application,
this is the appearance
for them on Mac OS X.
Square Bevel Button The Bevel
Button is nothing new.
The Square Bevel Button was created
specifically on Mac OS X to provide
for the situation where you want
to have multiple buttons that
are related that show status.
The Square Bevel Button does
a really good job of showing
which one is selected.
So you have text attributes, you know,
bold, italicized, underlined,
or alignment or whatever.
The Bevel Button does
a great job of that.
The Square Bevel Button also is great
for in the bottom left corner or
anywhere along the scroll bar edge
of a window because it fits in there.
It can be any size.
It can have a pop-up
menu associated with it.
It can have an icon in it.
It can have a whole bunch of things.
It's a great use of it there.
Great for toolbars, et cetera.
So this is another way of doing a toolbar
in Mac OS X or doing collections of
related items that need to show status.
Another thing on Mac OS X is
the appearance of text.
It's anti-aliased.
It's anti-aliased everywhere.
And the font that's provided through
the system is lucid or grand.
When you specify a particular
font face in your application,
when you're drawing text yourself,
you should select text through meta
font specifications through the
appearance manager for your Carbon.
Avoid hard coding font references.
Avoid hard coding font sizes.
Specifically saying,
"Use Geneva 9 for my interface,"
is something you should avoid.
Those fonts may not even
be available in the future.
Lucida Grande is a system font.
You need to specify the font that you're
going to use to draw the text on your
interface by using meta specifications.
Let the system draw it wherever possible.
In one of the sessions here, 119,
session 119,
Carbon Controls and Appearance,
we're going to get into detail as
to what are the common API changes
that you need to make to get your
text to draw properly in Mac OS X.
So one of the great ways of learning is
by looking at pictures of what not to do.
or what to do.
And in this case,
because this is just so,
as we look at applications
that are coming to Mac OS X,
we're seeing lots of great
examples of what to do.
We're also seeing lots
of common oversights.
So rather than fabricate some fake
screenshot that we put together in
Photoshop to communicate some idea,
I chose to use some real
developer examples from out there,
maybe some of these are your products,
and show what some of the common
oversights are with respect
to creating a great appearance
for your Mac OS X product.
What are the typical things that
developers are doing today on
shipping products in Mac OS X?
So that you can learn from them.
And this is not an effort
at picking on a developer.
This is all about
learning from each other.
First one is wrong window background.
Windows in Mac OS X come up,
certainly under Carbon,
by default come up with
a white background.
So you need to use theme
backgrounds to get the striping,
the pinstriping background
that's common on Mac OS X.
So windows on Mac OS X, dialogs,
palettes, utility windows, you know,
whatever, all the window types have
a pinstripe background.
Your application needs to have
pinstriping on the background
of your dialogs in your palette
windows and utility windows.
Not only does a white background look,
well basically what this does
is it makes it look incomplete.
Aqua controls in fact were designed
to look best on a striped background.
And using the wrong background,
although this is a really little thing,
leads to bigger things like this.
Custom backgrounds,
controls that don't even look.
This is a Mac OS X product.
It doesn't even look like Mac OS X.
It's using not even
Mac OS 9 pop-up menus.
There's no little down arrow
indicating that those are pop-up menus.
These look like System 7 pop-up menus.
Or not even.
Um, the tabs that are being used,
those three buttons in the top are tabs.
Non-standard tabs.
So what this does is it
makes this product feel,
even though it has
fantastic functionality,
it makes it feel like it's
not a full class citizen.
Antialiased text or not,
one of the most common things that we're
seeing with product shipping-- these
are all shipping products in Mac OS X.
In fact, this product comes from-- this
dialogue comes from a product
that's in fact the company's done
a fantastic job moving to 10.
And yet, in this particular dialogue,
for whatever reason,
we have a mixture of antialiased
text and non-antialiased text.
We have a mixture of system font
and hard-coded font references.
So if you look at the right side of
this screen of this particular dialogue,
we've got controls that
have the Helvetica font.
They're not using the system to
draw the font in the controls,
so they must be drawing the controls
themselves with Appearance Manager maybe,
but the font is not correct.
We've got the labels down
the side are Helvetica.
So we've got Helvetica font on some
controls and on some labels mixed
with Lucida Grande font that the
system drew on some of the controls.
If you look, even there's some other
lack of attention to detail.
Even the baseline of the
text on the labels and the
controls doesn't even line up.
So one of the messages I want to
communicate really clearly here
is that your customers... Hold on,
one of the messages I want to
communicate here is that you've spent
a lot of time writing your product.
You've spent a lot of time investing
yourself into the code behind your
product and all of its functionality.
If you put on a half-hearted
effort for the user interface,
people are looking for a fabulous
interface on Mac OS X because it's
set a new standard for interface.
If your product doesn't deliver that,
that's how they're going to judge
the quality of your product.
And that's highly unfair probably
for the code that you've written,
because your product probably
does some great stuff.
But the same way that we buy
cars and we buy other things,
we look for attention to detail.
If there's no good icon in your product,
if it's just got a Mac OS 9
grayscale icon that's scaled
up to 128 by 128 in the dock,
The first impression
I'm going to have is,
whoa.
You know these, wow, they,
looks like they rushed to market.
And then you get this kind of stuff,
which, which further, you know,
aggravates that, that idea.
Or pushes that idea.
Here's another common mistake.
Too small text.
Every developer,
pretty much in this room probably,
every one of you,
is going to argue that I need to
use small text in my interface.
It's got to be really small because
my users want lots of functionality
on the screen and there's not enough
screen real estate and I've got to
cram all this stuff on the screen.
Well, you know what,
that might be the case for some utility
windows and for pallet windows and
productivity applications that might,
there's probably some good arguments in
certain instances where that matters.
And where that's valuable
and where that's important.
But the vast majority of cases,
That we see and that
I interact with developers,
vast majority of cases it's
completely not important to,
in fact you shouldn't do small text.
I'm stumbling over my words here.
The problem with this particular dialogue
for example is this text is so small,
it's hard to read on a 1024768 display.
What happens if I start
running this application on
my new iBook that has 160 P.I.
running Mac OS X?
I can't read it.
So be very careful where
you choose small text.
Dialog boxes like this one
are transient in nature.
You display a dialog because the
user told you to display the dialog.
They chose something in the interface.
A dialog appears.
It could be much bigger.
This dialog could grow 25% or 30%
and use the full-size system font,
large system font, everywhere on it,
and it would be equally usable.
And because dialogues are transient,
they can be much bigger.
You can use standard-sized controls.
You can use standard-sized text,
large system font.
Because I'm focused in that as a user,
I'm not interacting with other
stuff on my screen typically.
Careful how often you use small text.
Another common problem:
mixing small and large text.
Here we've got a dialogue,
or a portion of a dialogue,
that's got standard font
in the pop-up menus,
but it's got small system
font for the labels.
If you're using small controls,
then use small labels.
If you're using large controls,
standard controls, use large system font.
Because what this does
is it looks incomplete.
It looks unfinished.
There's another thing.
It might be a list.
I'm not sure what this is.
In fact, lists on Mac OS X have
a white background.
This one's got a striped background.
This list is using non-standard
font for the contents of the list.
So it's a Helvetic or something.
I'm not even sure what it is.
The OK and Cancel are in the right place,
but we're going to get to that shortly.
And along the top here we have,
what are they, white bevel buttons?
Oh, they're column headers.
Well, on Mac OS X, there's a particular
appearance for list headers.
For Carbon, if you use Data Browser APIs,
the Data Browser will give you the right
appearance in Mac OS 9 and on Mac OS X.
It just does the right thing
for column headers and it takes
care of a lot of other stuff,
like cool animation of columns
as you move them around.
It does the right thing for you,
saving you, helping you,
or allowing you to focus on
the value add for your product
and letting us do the UI code.
And in Cocoa,
lists can be done with NSOutlineView and
NSBrowserView and some of the
other classes that are available.
So lists have a white background,
the dialogue has a striped background.
This is common.
And that is where we have a
duality in character for controls.
And the most common of these is
button labels or label buttons
or... I'm not sure which it is.
So as I look at this dialog,
it's laid out great.
It's followed the interface, you know,
the layout guidelines,
the spacing and stuff like that.
It's got full Aqua, you know,
the right pinstriping,
got the right controls,
everything like that.
The problem is...
Is gradation a button?
Or is it a label for the
pop-up menu beside it?
Well, it's both, actually.
For people who are used to the computer,
they could probably figure this out,
and it's not that big a deal.
We probably wouldn't even think,
you know, very much about this.
But for new users, new customers,
it's confusing.
A button is not a label.
A button is a button.
A pop-up menu needs a label.
Interface elements were
designed for specific reasons.
Use them for what they were designed for,
and don't make them do
two different things.
Going back to a dialogue that we
looked at a little bit before in
terms of the font size mixing up,
something else I want to bring
attention to is something else
I see fairly often in products
that are shipping on 10 today,
and that is this button
that has an ellipsis in it.
What does it do?
I don't know.
What they really want this to do
is essentially be the last item in
those pop-up menus where there's a
separator that says more or other.
Right?
Maybe it's a font list or,
well in this case I forget
what's in these menus,
but maybe it's a list of font sizes
and then there's a separator spacing,
right, and then it says other,
dot dot dot.
So unless something has to be
elevated to the primary level,
you know,
to the highest level in the interface,
a dot dot dot button is not something
that users are going to understand.
And the problem here is that it cuts down
on productivity because the user has to
click on this thing to see what it does.
Oh, okay.
And then they make a mental note about
what this does and hopefully they
remember what it does in the future.
Too many group boxes.
One of the design goals in Aqua was to
eliminate black lines and hard edges and
move to a softer environment that has
lots of breathing space and white space,
and that sort of thing.
And this is a fantastic
product on Mac OS X.
They've done a fabulous job with this
from a technological point of view.
But here's a great example of
a dialogue box that has way
too many group boxes in it.
And in fact, the goal for the developer,
probably,
was to make the group boxes help the
user navigate the dialogue and find
the things that they're looking for.
But in fact,
they've not accomplished that.
They've gone,
it's in fact done the wrong thing.
It's gone the other way.
In fact, all the lines now make it
very confusing to read.
And we're going to get into some examples
later of how to avoid using group
boxes but use separator lines and white
spacing to accomplish the same goal.
And yet it makes the
dialogue far more readable.
If you do have to use group boxes,
which are available in Aqua,
there's a primary group box and
there's a secondary group box,
which have both different appearances.
So in the case where you might
have a group box within another
one where it's warranted,
there's another appearance
for a secondary group box.
So look in the interface
guidelines for details on that.
Mixing Platinum and Aqua.
A lot of you are coming
from Mac OS 9 to Mac OS X.
You're carbonizing your products.
And here's a product that's
shipping on 10 today.
They've got it inside
of a Mac OS X window.
But the contents of the window
are completely platinum.
The disclosure triangle on
the folder is the platinum,
the Mac OS 9 appearance.
The folders themselves,
Mac OS 9 appearance.
The list background is gray and white,
Mac OS 9 background.
So what this leads me to
believe as a user is that,
well, is this a native Mac OS X app?
Or I'm not sure,
because it feels like kind of 9.
Make sure that every interface
element that you draw is native for
the platform on which you're on.
What's your citizenship?
Another example of
mixing Platinum and Aqua,
here's somebody who decided
that the progress bar was,
you know, I don't know,
they were going to draw it themselves,
so they figured out what the pixels were,
and they're drawing this
thing by themselves.
But the problem is that on 10,
it draws the same way it
always did on Mac OS 9.
So there's a progress bar
control available in Mac OS X and
it will draw the pulsing,
you know, sort of the animating,
not pulsing, the animating progress bar.
Common issue.
Wrong tabs.
Tabs, you know,
and some of this is because Apple in
the past didn't have a tab control.
So developers had to come up with
another way of allowing users to
switch the pane in a dialog box.
But here are three examples of ways
in which people have customized tabs,
in which they continue
to customize tabs on X.
And for example, on the right side,
we've got two rounded bevel buttons
that they're taken out of context here,
but in context,
you would have no idea that they
switched the pane of the window.
They just look like two buttons that
happen to be really close together.
So if you've got a tabbed interface,
use the standard Mac OS X tabs,
which look like this.
They're available north, south, east,
west side of a pane.
Top, bottom, left, right.
and they're available in large or small,
a standard or small size.
Toolbar overdose.
This is actually a real
product shipping on 10.
And when you fire it up
for the very first time,
you get-- well,
I think it's nine toolbars
showing up on screen.
And not only that-- well, first of all,
what that shows me is that the
programmer or the programmers or
whatever felt that every single
piece of code that they wrote was
extremely important and needed to be
connected up to an interface element.
Because they wanted the user
to use that cool feature.
That's not what usability is about.
Usability is about progressive
disclosure to your users to allow them
to move through the process of solving
a problem that they're trying to solve,
and you providing a great
solution for your software.
Don't just expose every feature in
your application to the interface.
Don't populate the menus with
every possible hook into your code.
It just makes for a completely
confusing environment.
This is synonymous with taking
every control in an automobile and
putting it on the steering wheel.
It becomes highly unusable.
You can't find anything.
How would you possibly drive?
How would you do stuff?
Not only that,
but we have appearance issues here.
It doesn't look like a Mac OS X toolbar,
right?
We talked about the toolbar
design for Mac OS X.
It's clean, straight background,
nice icons up on a background,
although this is the bevel button,
which is another option.
That's true.
But we have the font inside
of some of the controls here
is Helvetica or something.
It's not Lucida.
We have a pop-up menu at
the top for percentage,
which looks like it's
trying to be a combo box,
but it's a pop-up,
but it's an edit field.
So we've got this multi-characteristic
schizophrenic control,
which really becomes
highly confusing for users.
And why is it confusing?
Because it doesn't look like
anything they're used to.
It kind of looks like
something they're used to,
so maybe they'll figure it out.
But it doesn't lend users to
self-confidence and to encourage them
to move on and learn the product.
Step 5 about being a good
citizen is layout guidelines.
We publish very detailed
information about the spacing
between interface elements.
And we've thought long and hard
about why this is important.
It comes down to readability.
It comes down to navigation
of content of your dialogues.
It comes down to localization issues.
It comes down to the overall
appearance of Mac OS X.
Lots of white space and
breathing room and a light,
friendly,
kind of lively feeling to Mac OS X.
So it's important to follow these.
And we're not suggesting
that you memorize this stuff,
because we've got a great
tool that's available that
you've seen already probably,
called Interface Builder that lets
you basically draw your interface,
drag and drop elements on screen,
and as you drag these things on screen,
you get guidelines that sort
of snap in place that say,
"Hey, this is the right place for that,"
with respect to that other control
or with respect to the edge of the
window or the tab panel or whatever.
Interface Builder is a
fantastic prototyping tool.
Not only does it let you draw this stuff,
but it lets you hook it up to code.
And you saw in the keynote address
where Scott Forstall demonstrated this.
Fantastic example of
how this is a really,
this is a prototyper with a kick.
It's the UI design tool of choice
and we're going to continue
to extend this tool so that it
becomes the premier design tool
for interface design at Apple.
Carbon APIs are available to,
this is not only just
for Cocoa developers.
Carbon developers can use the
output from Interface Builder
and extract the resources in
the windows that are in there.
Those APIs exist and we're
going to talk about those in
some of the other sessions.
So let's look at some common scenarios
that we're seeing as products
come to Mac OS X of developers
who are not adopting the interface
guidelines in terms of layout,
you know, guidelines.
And we're going to look at why
this matters and how you can
transition a dialogue that doesn't
follow this stuff into a dialogue
that does and how dramatically
it affects the overall usability.
Here's a preference panel from an
application that's available on 10 today.
Fantastic application.
And yet it's very hard
to navigate this panel.
It's very hard to tell what's
here and you have to actually
read every single element
and think about it in its context
relative to the other elements to think
about whether it's the one that you want.
The alternative is of course
to apply the interface guide,
the layout guidelines and
you get something like this,
which has grouping of
elements that are related,
it uses a separator bar,
it uses white space,
and suddenly now you can quickly
scan the categories and zero in on
the category that you're interested
of the setting that you're after,
right?
So go to this or go to this.
And the dramatic effect
that you see here,
if that is applied to every single
dialog box in your application,
every single palette window or utility
window or whatever you want to call them,
but if you take these guidelines
and apply them to your application,
you could ship that application
simply by applying the guidelines and
people would buy it because it looks
so much better and it's so much more
navigatable and so much more usable.
So the effect on your
application moving to Mac OS X,
applying these guidelines is dramatic.
We've seen developers who have
taken the time to do this and
they're blown away by the results.
Their quality assurance teams
look at these things and go,
"Wow, this is great." And yet the
developers haven't done anything.
They've only modified the
layout guidelines or the
layout of their dialogues.
Here's another example.
This is a shipping product on Mac OS X.
We've got a bunch of problems here.
We've got check boxes way
too close to each other,
although they're on a white list,
so we'll give them credit for that.
We've got some big buttons on the right,
which we're not sure what they do,
but we'll talk about that in a second.
And then we've got some text at the top,
which is the list label, I guess,
but the text is clipped.
It's cut off.
This is shipping on 10.
So what does that say to you as a user?
If you buy a product,
you spend 200 bucks or whatever
you spend on the product,
and you fire this thing up and
there's text that's cut off.
The effect it has on you is that
you have an immediate impression
and you make a decision,
you form an opinion about the
quality of that product based on
what you're seeing in the interface,
and you maybe haven't even
done anything with the product.
Maybe it does provide a great solution.
Maybe it does have highly
functional characteristics.
And yet you make a decision about
its quality based on the interface.
So for all of you out
there who are writing code,
if you're not one of the
UI designers at your company,
get on the UI designers to make
sure that they do a good job
because otherwise your code will
be misrepresented to your users.
So when you apply the layout guidelines,
not only do you adjust the spacing
and get rid of the clipping text,
but you end up thinking about
the overall functionality.
Does this need to be a modal dialog?
In fact, if we make it a modalist dialog,
we can simplify the dialog
and make it a lot cleaner.
So we end up with this.
Check all, uncheck all.
Turns on and off all of the
check boxes in the list.
We've had the spacing list,
put the right font at the top.
Dramatic change from this to this.
If you apply the layout guidelines
using Interface Builder or
whatever tool you want to use,
you get dramatic effects in your product.
Dramatic usability increases,
productivity increases.
So the cumulative effect of a
lot of these oversights is an
interface that's very confusing.
Here's an example of a
product shipping on Mac OS X.
It's a great product, it really is.
But it's hindered by a
really clumsy interface.
We've got label buttons or
button labels at the top.
We've got features that are
just sort of existing in space.
I don't know why we have a checkbox
up there below the buttons.
We've got overuse of group boxes, which,
you know, aren't even laid out nicely,
so I don't know what's grouped
together really and why.
There's no labels.
We've got interface elements like a
slider control that talks about scale
that goes from a scale of nine to 4,000.
266.
I don't know what that means.
So the developer does,
and there must be a reason,
but you know what?
The user probably doesn't care.
So be careful of elevating things
to the primary interface that are
meaningless to the user in the
context of what they're doing.
Not only that, we've got something else.
Halfway down the screen you see some
bevel buttons that have icons in them.
They're disabled for this
particular screenshot,
but they're actually the title of a group
box that's connected by a reset control.
What does that mean?
I don't know.
So here's an example where someone
had a creative idea and yet when they,
if they had done usability
testing or whatever,
they would have realized
this is just non-standard.
So group boxes have
particular appearances.
The contents of group boxes or whatever,
you know, groupings you have
This is just a stranger
in a strange land.
And add to that a whole bunch
of other stuff and you get an
interface that's highly unusable.
You don't know where to go first,
although they've tried to show you
where to go first by making the
push button at the bottom very big,
okay?
And we see that a lot.
And this is not to pick
on this developer at all.
I see that a lot.
So when you apply the
layout guidelines to this,
you end up with something that's
highly more navigatable visually.
There are visual cues, there's groupings,
dramatic change.
Tab along the top, labels and pop-ups,
you don't have duality
of meanings and controls.
You've got groupings, original image,
scanned image, image quality, you know,
the center alignment of sort of
center orientation of stuff in Aqua,
great white spacing,
the proper help button,
no more closed box, all that stuff.
Big difference in usability
between that and that.
So it does matter to apply this stuff.
And I interact with a
lot of developers who go,
oh yeah.
You know, what does it matter?
Well it really does.
Because we see lots of examples
as we interact with you,
looking at your products on 10,
and it affects the usability.
It affects the self-confidence of users.
It affects their productivity.
It affects all those things that
we talked about at the beginning
that ultimately user benefits
roll into developer benefits.
You want to make money on Mac OS X,
make a product that is so easy to use,
and so navigatable,
and so visually gorgeous like this,
you will make money on Mac OS X.
It's not about just bringing your
code to Mac OS X and making it native.
Because that just gets
you to the platform,
remember?
It doesn't get you on the platform.
So don't be a stranger in a strange land.
I've talked about this message a lot.
I'm not going to carry
on about that more.
Let's talk about the new layout
in terms of the layout guidelines.
This is a little bit different,
but there's a new layout
in Mac OS X for menus.
And this came about, again,
to try to solve a problem,
an age-old problem that we've had on
the Mac whereby we've become so used
to-- certainly those in the audience who
are from the Macintosh background-- have
become so used to quitting an application
by going to the File menu Quit.
They haven't even thought about the fact
that that makes absolutely no sense.
We don't quit files.
You quit applications.
You close files.
You save files.
You print files.
You open them.
But you don't quit them.
Although that's a term that people say,
I'm going to quit this document.
But that's a misuse of the term.
We quit applications.
And so we've taken the opportunity
in Aqua to introduce a new hierarchy
in the menu bar that starts on
the left with the Apple menu,
which is system global.
This menu shouldn't be populated by you.
This is not for developer features,
developer commands.
This is for the system.
And the new Apple menu is
accessible everywhere in the system,
regardless of what application you're in.
You can get the same
functionality in the Apple menu,
unlike what you could do in Mac OS 9,
which was highly frustrating.
Now that once you see the new design,
you go back to Mac OS 9, it's like, ah,
blast.
I've got to click on Finder and then go
to the Apple menu to find about this Mac.
In Mac OS X,
you just go to the Apple menu, boom,
about this Macintosh.
Or this computer, whatever it says.
The next one, moving right.
First one is the Apple menu,
system global.
Now we have application global.
So the things that you put in
the application global menu are
the things that relate to your
application on a global scale,
like preferences.
An application has preferences.
Sometimes documents have preferences.
And what we're encouraging you through
the interface guidelines is to put
a preference item in the application
menu that is hierarchical in nature,
that says preferences, application,
preferences document.
But in most cases,
applications have preferences and they
should go in the application menu.
And therefore,
with the application menu in place,
we now have a great place
to put the quit item,
right?
We quit processes on X.
We quit applications.
That's where the quit menu should go.
So as you move from Mac OS 9 to Mac OS X,
one of the first things you need to do
is make sure that your menu structure
adheres to the Mac OS X menu structure.
Move your preferences item
from wherever it was before.
In many cases, it's the edit menu,
but in many cases,
it's elsewhere and it's not
even called preferences.
Call it preferences and put
it in the application menu.
Moving right, we have the File menu,
which is document global, in a sense,
document centric.
So you put into the File menu
the things that relate to
your application documents.
Saving, opening, printing, page setup.
You actually close,
we put the Close one in here.
We didn't put it in the Window menu,
we put it in the File menu
because you actually close files.
And a lot of people think of it that way,
and so that's where the Close command is.
The Window menu is really
for manipulating windows and
tiling them and arranging them,
but this is where we put Close.
So pay attention to that too.
Some people overlook that.
Next, moving right again.
So we've got, so starting at the left,
just to remind you, right?
System global, app global,
document specific.
Now we're looking at
document content specific.
So the next menus are all
about document content.
And then you've got the window
and help menu at the end.
For the system, which the system takes
care of in many cases,
and the help menu is where you're
going to hook up your user assistance.
Remember we talked about how a good
application delivers help through,
delivers user assistance?
This is where you would hook up your user
assistance for Apple help on Mac OS X.
Predefine file locations.
On Mac OS X, every user has an account,
right?
And in that account, in that setup,
they've got a default directory,
a predefined directory for movies,
for documents, for music, for pictures.
So don't put your application
support files in the music folder.
Put them in the library folder
in a folder that's titled
according to your application.
If you save music,
make the default location
the user's music directory.
And after that,
if the user chooses to make another place
for you to save as a default location,
fine.
But that's the user's choice.
But a well-behaved application of
Mac OS X that delivers a great user
experience is going to respect the
default predefined file locations
that are available on per user basis.
And the new interface guidelines,
by the way, they're published today
and available on the web,
talk about when you should
use those locations,
what they are,
and when they're to be used,
and that sort of thing.
Another building block of a great
user experience on 10 is Apple Help.
Apple Help is a lightweight HTML browser.
Basically,
we've been talking about this for
two years and it's not a memory hog.
It's there.
It's written in a way specifically
to deliver quick content,
feature-rich content.
You can put QuickTime movies
and sound in there.
We've got a great announcement to
make in the Apple Help session on,
I forget which day it is, session 125.
Anyway, I think it's Thursday or
it might be today.
I'm not sure.
Look on your calendar.
But session 125,
we've got a great announcement
about moving some content from other
platforms into Apple Help format.
But Apple Help is the way you
should deliver user assistance.
We're going to be extending
Apple Help functionality in the future,
of course, as we're going to extend
everything in the operating system.
But this is where and how you should
deliver user assistance on Mac OS X.
It's going to provide
an anti-aliased display.
really rich content.
Do it this way.
Don't roll your own.
Let us deliver the services that are
user experience related wherever we
can so that you can focus on the things
that are going to be used in the future.
Don't just focus on the solutions that
you need to be providing to your users.
Don't spend time writing a help viewer.
We already did that.
And if it doesn't have the functionality
that you're interested in or that
you need for a particular case,
work with me and develop relations
to get that functionality added.
Talk about that in a little
bit of detail later on.
The new window layering model.
Here's another example of where
in Aqua we're trying to go beyond
the experience that we've had
before and solve some of the
problems we've had in the past.
In Mac OS 9,
when you have multiple applications open
with multiple document windows open,
it becomes really confusing and
frustrating sometimes to move data from a
Finder window into an application window.
Because every time you
click on one of the,
you know,
whether you click on Finder or the app,
all of the windows come forward from
that application and maintain their,
Z order.
As a Canadian, I would say Z order.
But they maintain the
ordering that's there,
that the user put in place.
And that becomes really
frustrating for moving data back
and forth through drag and drop,
for example.
So one of our design goals with Aqua was
to enhance that functionality and solve
some of the usability issues there,
create a more modeless environment
that'll support Sheets,
which we're going to
talk about in a second,
but have this interleaved document model,
which allows you to have multiple
applications open with multiple documents
and interleave an Excel window with
a MetroWorks window with a WordPro,
whatever.
Interleave your document windows,
and it makes for a whole lot easier
movement of data between windows,
among other things.
10 is sheets.
Sheets are fantastic.
They're probably one of the
things that's mentioned the most
often in a review of Mac OS X.
This new interface behavior,
new interface element,
which is called sheets.
Well really, sheets are just dialogues.
They're document-specific
modal dialogues.
So wherever today you have a document,
when you have a document open,
you would bring up a dialogue
whose contents and whose settings
affect the current document,
the active document,
that's a perfect candidate for a sheet.
And the benefit of sheets is that
it moves the user into a more
modeless world where they become
modal only for that document.
Today, in most cases,
if you put up a modal
dialogue for a document,
I'm now forced into this
modality within the application.
I'm modal for that application.
I can't do anything else in
that application on Mac OS 9.
Sheets allow me to put up the sheet,
this dialogue,
that is connected with the title
bar of a document so that there's
this immediate association.
I can move that window around and
the sheet just follows along with it.
And yet I can still interact with all
the other documents and work on the other
documents in the application that I'm on.
So this is a move,
a deliberate move on our part to
move even more closely to some of the
design principles that are laid out,
software design principles that
are in the beginning of the human
interface guidelines document.
I know a lot of people that just
sort of open that book and they go,
software design principles.
Oh,
that's what a button needs to look like.
And they go on and they
make the widgets look right,
and yet they haven't paid any attention
to the software design principles.
Here's a great example of how we are
paying attention to the software design
principles in Mac OS X with Aqua,
and moving one of those
principles is mode-lessness.
Don't force users into a mode where
they're stuck and they can't do anything
else but what they're focused on.
Sheets does that.
So use Sheets only where
it's document specific.
Help tags.
Help tags is another,
is the next level of user
assistance on Mac OS X.
HTML help is really just
delivery of content,
right?
It's sort of like, I need to read about,
you know, making a movie,
or whatever it is that you do.
And so the user goes off and reads
the HTML document and looks at
some interactive stuff and hears
some sound clips or whatever it is.
But help tags are all
about sort of saying,
letting the user move
around the screen and say,
let's see, what's this?
Ah.
What's this?
Oh, okay.
So it's, what's this?
User assistance.
And the interface guidelines
talk in great detail about how to
write the content for a help tag.
It's pretty straightforward,
and help tags go a long way
in providing a really rich,
really informative user
experience for your customers.
Speech Enabling:
We've come a long way with our
speech technologies at Apple.
There's a session here
called Session 127.
It's speech recognition and synthesis.
We all talk.
We all listen.
These are things that we
don't even think about doing.
Wouldn't it be great if your application
could enhance the user experience by
speaking to the user where it made sense?
Say you're in K-12.
Say you deliver educational products.
Or say you're a graphic design tool
and you want to just... Right now,
you say you're drawing something.
In today's applications,
if you're drawing something,
the mouse button is down
and that's my input device.
Wouldn't it be cool if
I could say while I'm drawing,
"Thicker pen.
Color red."
That's another input device.
And the speech technologies
at Apple allow you to do that.
And so think about ways in Mac OS X,
all of the APIs and all the functionality
that was there before is available in 10,
and we're going to extend this
stuff further as we're going
to do a lot of other stuff.
So speech enabling your application
can greatly enhance the user
experience and make you even a
better full class citizen or a better
citizen in the country of Mac OS X,
in this world of Mac OS X.
Not only speech recognition,
which sometimes is difficult
to do and get right,
given the environment that your
product is used in or whatever,
but speech synthesis
is actually fantastic.
You can actually embed in the text string
that you give to the speech synthesizer,
you know,
little codes that say emphasize,
change the intonation, pause,
so that the speech synthesis
you get is actually very,
very realistic.
So imagine you're a K through
12 customer and you want to
use speech in your product.
You can actually greatly enhance
the user experience by having this
product talk back to the kids.
Or if you're a game developer,
instead of storing tons
and tons or megabytes and
megabytes of digitized speaking,
you know, digitized voices,
use speech synthesis.
You just have to store the ASCII text
of the string that the synthesizer
would speak with some of the,
you know, encodings inside and you'd
save tons of space on your CD,
which would in turn translate into
lower cost of goods and et cetera,
et cetera.
So speech enabling your application
can make sense in a lot of cases.
The last final building block,
which wasn't on the chart in the
beginning but I want to mention,
is consistency everywhere.
As we look at products
coming to Mac OS X,
and this is true on Mac OS 9,
but particularly on Mac OS X as
products are coming over,
we still see developers who say, "Ahh."
Well, I want to give it a different
way of picking colors.
I've got a better way of picking colors.
So they choose to offer a
different way of picking colors.
I don't need to use
the system font picker.
You know, I don't like it,
or I can't figure out the APIs,
or I don't know where the APIs are,
or I didn't even know it existed,
so I wrote my own font picker.
Well, the problem with that is that users
who come to Mac OS X are going to be
expecting a consistent experience.
It's like me looking for a
gas station or a 7-Eleven.
I want a Coke or a Mountain Dew at
11 o'clock at night,
and so I say to my wife,
I'm going to go to the 7-Eleven.
So I go bombing around.
Well, an hour later,
I still don't have a Coke or
a Mountain Dew or whatever
it was I wanted to get,
and I'm still looking for this thing
because the visual cues weren't there.
The things I was looking
for weren't there.
If I'm looking to change a
font in all of the applications
I've ever used on Mac OS X,
do font picking in a certain way,
and now I get into your application and
your font picking is in a different way,
it's not that I can't figure it out,
it's that it impedes my productivity.
It slows me down because
now I'm going to go,
"Oh,
where do I pick fonts in this product?"
Where do I choose a color?
How do I choose a color?
How does this color picker work?
We have color pickers on Mac OS X.
Yes, they're different
between Carbon and Cocoa.
We know that.
It's a known bug.
We're going to fix that.
That's no excuse to not use the color
picker that's available in the system.
Because when we do make them the same,
they'll be the same.
Your application will just offer
color picking the same way that
every other application does.
Yes, the FOD Picker might not be
available to some of you,
depending on the
framework that you're in.
But it will be eventually.
That's certainly our goal.
We're investigating that.
So build your code in
anticipation of it coming.
Support Unicode in
international customers.
Mac OS X, I mean,
we made a big message in the keynote,
in obvious keynote about the
localizability of Mac OS X,
the multilingual aspects of Mac OS X.
If you're going to provide a great user
experience for all of your customers,
which are worldwide, hopefully,
you need to think about all
the international issues.
Use Unicode encoding for your
fonts and stuff like that,
for your text.
Application bundles.
That point is up there because it's about
the double click experience on Mac OS X.
Remember years gone by back in '84
when Mac Paint was just a single file?
This application that we all love to use,
it was a single file on the desktop.
It was in a folder and you just
double-clicked it and that was all.
And if you wanted to move
it to another system,
your new Macintosh,
you just copied it on a floppy
disk and moved it across.
It was just one icon to move.
Mac OS X not only does it provide
bundles that give you a single
icon that users move around,
and that icon is really just a
folder containing lots of stuff.
But the bundle also gives you a lot of
other functionality that we're going to
talk about in one of the sessions here,
114, app packaging and document binding.
And in other sessions you're going
to hear a lot about the bundle,
the application bundle.
So consistency everywhere.
The point of this slide is,
wherever possible,
build on system services and
system behaviors because users
are expecting those things.
They're looking for
things in certain places.
the common visual cues.
And if they're not there because you
just decided to do something different,
it's going to dramatically affect
the usability of your product.
It's going to affect your performance.
the product reviews that you get.
It's going to affect all the things
that we talked about at the beginning.
So in closing,
and I wish I had a slide here
that was the the original slide
of the building blocks for Aqua.
Focus on the basics before the advanced.
We've talked about a lot of
stuff that relates to Aqua and
providing a great user experience
in your Eccles 10 product,
but what we want to clearly
communicate with that chart is don't
go off and do cheats before you
have the layout guidelines in place.
That chart is really important.
Do the layout guidelines and a
quality icon and adopt the system
appearance before you go off
and do some of the other stuff.
Respect the doc before you
go off and do doc animations.
And don't do doc animations
unless it makes sense to do that.
Don't do help tags before
you've delivered basic user
assistance through Apple help.
You understand?
So there are priorities there.
Focus on adopting the system
appearance and getting the
layout guidelines in place.
Because of all the apps
that I've seen out there,
the vast majority of them don't
yet yet do those basic things.
As I look around many of the
interface design discussion
lists that are out there,
some hosted by Apple, some that are not,
we see all kinds of weeping and wailing
and gnashing of teeth about different
features in Aqua that aren't there
or how can Apple change this or that.
But I want to just turn it,
we're aware of a lot of those issues
and we're going to address them.
But I want to turn the
challenge back to you.
As Steve said, create products that
are going to delight.
Your users.
What is your citizenship?
Are you going to exist in this
world of Mac OS X and make
your product look like a true,
you know, citizen of that world?
Or is it going to be a
stranger to a foreign land?
A great way to do that is to follow the
checklist for creating Aqua applications,
which is in the back section.
It's one of the appendix,
one of the back sections of
the interface guidelines.
It's called the checklist for
adopting Aqua applications.
And it's a great checklist.
Follow that checklist and if you can
do all those things or many of those,
you're going to have a
fantastic product on 10.
Work with Apple to enhance Aqua.
If you're thinking of creating a control
that you think is absolutely important
and key to the success of your product,
don't just keep it to yourself.
Work with me and Developer Relations,
I'll give you my email address shortly,
to convince me and I can work as
an advocate on your behalf to get
Apple to add that functionality
in the system potentially.
And then everybody can benefit
from that functionality and the
whole platform will benefit.
Thank you.
So what's your legacy?
Mac OS X has the capability,
has an interface that's unparalleled
of anything we've seen before and
the reviews would attest to that.
You have an opportunity to release
a product that on X sets a new
standard in interface design,
sets a new standard in terms
of appearance on Mac OS X.
What's your legacy?
What do you want your legacy
to be as a software developer?
Do you want to be known for having,
you know, yeah it does a lot of stuff,
but man,
I don't know how to use the product,
you know?
Or do you want to be known as a
company that delivers fantastic
solutions that delight customers and
that feels like it's part of the OS?
Oh, who made this?
Wow.
You know, I thought this was part
of the OS or whatever.
What's your legacy going to be?
It's not only about APIs and features
and elevating all those features up into
a toolbar that's completely overloaded.
Last thing, I want to do a plug for the
Apple Design Awards tonight.
The Apple Design Awards is
four categories.
One of them is
Best Mac OS X User Experience.
We're going to highlight a runner-up
and a winner in that category,
as well as other categories,
where we're going to say these
products set the standard to
which every other product in
Mac OS X should be coded towards,
in terms of user experience.
So come to the
Apple Design Awards tonight.
It's going to be a fun event.
Last thing,
just some information for you.
Inside Mac OS X,
Aqua Human Interface Guidelines,
they're available now.
A new version is
available on the website.
There's a new web page up there
that went up a few weeks ago.
It's from developer.apple.com/ue.
It just basically links to all kinds
of discussions about windows and
dialogs and icons and all this stuff.
It's great to sort of drop into that
one page and you've got contacts out
into the Carbon and Cocoa worlds for all
the different interface elements that
I've talked about today and a lot more.
And then there's an interface
discussion list that's hosted by Apple,
which is up there.
And you don't need to write
down these URLs because in fact,
in the last slide that I'll end up on,
there's a single URL you can visit.
It's got this session number with
all of that information below it.
Just point you to a few more
sessions that are coming up.
Session 119 and 120 that are
tomorrow in hall two right here.
They're going to talk there in
those sessions specifically about
how to get the right appearance
If you look at some of the
common oversights we looked at,
how do you get beyond, you know,
striping that doesn't line up,
which isn't even an example I showed.
How do you get beyond a white background?
How do you get beyond, you know,
the wrong halo around your controls,
or controls that animate, you know,
all those sort of things.
That's a session to come to if
you're a Carbon developer and you
want to get around those issues.
Designing and using Aqua Icons, again,
great session to attend to learn
how to critique and decide whether
the icon that somebody's made
for you is the right one or not.
Apple Help, again, straightforward.
Speech Synthesis Recognition,
please visit that one.
Session that's going to be very
interesting and I would encourage
you to attend is Session 114,
where we are going to set clear,
as many of you have asked us to,
make a clear statement about
what is going on in terms of
file naming and document binding
and application packaging.
What are the rules?
What should I do?
All these sorts of things.
Come to that session, please.
And Interface Builder.
Learn about Interface Builder.
If you haven't played with it,
go to Session 702,
even though it was yesterday,
but you can watch it on
the DVD or something.
And the last thing is feedback on Aqua.
We love to get feedback on Aqua.
There's a feedback forum.
It should be a really fun event.
It's this afternoon.
Please come to that.
I've actually run out of time here,
although I've got about five minutes.
I think I could take a couple questions.
So if I want to ask the
Interface Design Team,
a couple of you want
to come up front here.
We'll take a few questions,
but there's a feedback forum for
Aqua and then for the high-level toolbox.
And here's my contact information.
Please work with me as you look to
get a few things added to the system
when you consider adopting Aqua.